OpenSearch Technical Steering Committee

## Meeting Minutes 

#### 11 February 2026 / 8:00 AM PT

## Attendees

Present: Kris Freedain, Jonah Kowall, Michael Froh, Nils Bandener, Andrew Ross, Karsten Schnitter, Sam Herman, Eric Pugh, Yakun Li, Prudhvi Godithi, Shubham Gupta, 

Absent:  Yupeng Fu, Mikhail Stepura, Pallavi Priyadarshini, Bryan Burkholder, Amitai Stern, 

Guests: John Mertic - LF, Jeff Shapiro - LF

## AGENDA

### Prior Meeting Follow-up / Action Items

**14 January Meeting** - [Minutes](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2026/2026-01-14-minutes.md)

* **[Finalize] Forming Search TAG #81** - [technical-steering/issues/72](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/pull/81)

	- Charter looks good - ensure final comments are resolved
	- **Action Items** 
		- Give final input today (TSC)
		- Merge!

### New

**11 February Meeting - Agenda items** - [technical-steering/issues/83](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/83) 

* **License Scanning Program - Linux Foundation** (Andrew/Jeff Shapiro)
	- Guest presenter: Jeff Shapiro - The Linux Foundation
	- [The System Package Data Exchange™ (SPDX®)](https://spdx.dev/)
	- OpenSearch is looking at new/updated solutions to license scanning for the project
	- General overview of the program from the LF. 
		- Some of the tools that exist and what this program uses
		- Scans permissive vs copyleft - code compliance - source code & 3rd party dependancy - determine what legal risk or exposure could exist if anything is found
		- Not automated, done by a human. not in CICD pipeline / not GitHub Action
		- Output provided - license audit, intake scan, non-recurring, possible SBOM
		- Provide best practices for resolutions / actions 
	- **Action Items** (Andrew/TSC)
		- Continue discussion, costs, needs - keep conversation going
	
* **Roadmap Blog for 2026** (Eric/Pallavi/Kris)
	- Blog structure/plan of content is outlined
	- TSC members reach out to appropriate TAGs for input
	- Continue to provide input to draft (all)
	- **Action Items** 
		- Finalize foor publishing - target date before end of Feb

_not all agenda items covered due to lengthy License Scanning discussion - will continue via Slack/next meeting_ 