OpenSearch Technical Steering Committee

## Meeting Minutes 

#### 14 January 2026 / 8:00 AM PT

## Attendees

Present: Kris Freedain, Jonah Kowall, Mikhail Stepura, Nils Bandener, Andrew Ross, Karsten Schnitter, Amitai Stern, Sam Herman, Eric Pugh, Yakun Li, Prudhvi Godithi, Shubham Gupta, Bryan Burkholder, Pallavi Priyadarshini,

Absent:  Yupeng Fu, Michael Froh,

Guests: n/a

## AGENDA

### Prior Meeting Follow-up / Action Items

**12 November Meeting** - [Minutes](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2025/2025-11-12-minutes.md)
_no meeting in December due to holiday break_

* **Roadmap/Shared vision/Blog for 2026**
	- Roadmap/release schedule published - [opensearch.com/releases](https://opensearch.org/releases/)
		- Continuing 8-week release cadence
		- Quarterly for 2.19 patch releases
	- Blog / Shared vision
		- Structure/plan of how to put information together is in draft from Eric/Kris
		- High-level themes - RFCs need to be opened
	- **Action Items** 
		- Structure/plan doc - share with rest of TSC (Eric & Kris)
		- Reach out to dev teams/maintainers/community to open their forward looking RFCs (Pallavi & Andrew)

* **[PROPOSAL] Forming Security TAG #71** - [technical-steering/issues/71](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/71) 
	
	- Yes, this is moving forward
	- Charter, details PR open [DRAFT technical-steering/pull/75](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/pull/75)
	- **Action Items** 
		- Give final input on PR and get this pushed live (Nis & Karsten)

* **[PROPOSAL] Forming Search TAG #72** - [technical-steering/issues/72](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/72)

	- Discussion seems slightly derailed on 'performance/product/Luecene/ML-AI' focus
	- Need to iunclude all, let the group sort out direction while giving guidance if necessary
	- If group needs to divide into further TAGs, that would be natural progression of TAG to work through with TSC in future
	- **Action Items** 
		- Give final input today (TSC)
		- Work with Issue owner, proposed TAG group to next work on their Charter/details PR by Friday (Pallavi)

### New

**14 January Meeting - Agenda items** - [technical-steering/issues/79](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/79) 

* **FIPS-capable default distribution of OpenSearch** (Karsten)
	- [technical-steering/issues/77](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/77)
	- Overarching question = should FIPS compliant release be default distro? Should it be in addition to? Other?
	- Discussion:
		- This could be a breaking change for some
		- Does the community use non-FIPS compliant for specific reason
		- Adding separate would be challenging / what are the consequences
		- [Build TAG](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/tree/main/technical-advisory-groups/build-tag) should add their input on this
	- **Action Items** (Karsten & Nils)
		- Ensure TSC continues input on issue

* **[RFC] Revised index action authorization scheme** (Nils)
	- [security/issues/5814](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/issues/5814)
	- This is breaking change - how privileges are managed on end-user/alias - system indices
	- Further look at symantics of the change related to clients/platform
	- Could it be a feature flag when first implemented
	- **Action Items** (Nils & Kris)
		- Ensure TSC continues input on issue
		- Kris will work with community & LF/Marketing to ensure further awareness and input

* **Azure credits** (Andrew)
	- Andriy Redko has a grant of Azure credits from the GitHub Secure Open Source Fund for use with the OpenSearch Project. If there is interest in using these credits, please let Andrew know
	- **Action Items** (Andrew)
		- Engage with incoming request - connect with Andriy

