OpenSearch Technical Steering Committee

## Meeting Minutes 

#### 12 November 2025 / 8:00 AM PT

## Attendees

Present: Kris Freedain, Nils Bandener, Andrew Ross, Karsten Schnitter, Amitai Stern, Sam Herman, Eric Pugh, Yakun Li, Prudhvi Godithi, Michael Froh, Shubham Gupta, Bryan Burkholder, 

Absent:  Pallavi Priyadarshini, Yupeng Fu, Jonah Kowall, Mikhail Stepura

Guests: n/a

## AGENDA

### Prior Meeting Follow-up / Action Items

**10 October Meeting** - Welcome [Minutes](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2025/2025-10-14-minutes.md)

* **RFC: In-Place Updating Segments with jVector Graphs** (Sam Hermans) - [opensearch-jvector/issues/169](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-jvector/issues/169) 
	- mutability could be beneficial for the project
	- Reminder to add comments and considerations
	- Sam will be opening more issues for discussion
		- [opensearch-jvector/issues/205](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-jvector/issues/205)

### New

**10 October Meeting - Agenda items** - [technical-steering/issues/73](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/73) 


* **[PROPOSAL] Forming Security TAG #71** (Group) - [technical-steering/issues/71](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/71) 
	
	- Yes, this is moving forward
	- PR is open - small discussion on final version
		- [DRAFT technical-steering/pull/75](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/pull/75)
	- Interesting topic of discussion - will NDA be necessary for certain aspects
	- Should clearly state overlap/non-overlap with Security Response Team that already exists

* **[PROPOSAL] Forming Search TAG #72** (Group) - [technical-steering/issues/72](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/72)

	- Further discussion needed to clarify what it would cover - search? AI? performance? all of the above?
	- Performance should be included in every TAG, but, it also may benefit from being its own TAG
	- Overall, more discussion necessaary, being much more specific is necessary

* **Unmaintained repo ‘security-analytics’** (Andrew/Kris)
	- [opensearch-project/security-analytics ](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security-analytics )
	- Five maintainers from Amazon - priority changes(?) - need to diversify
	- Some fixes merged during release cycle - to get the release out
	- No plug-ins with dependancy on it, but it does have dependancy on others
	- long-term plans could be 
		- Keep the lights on mode
		- unbundle / 3rd party plugin model
		- first course of action for new Security TAG
	- **Action Items** (Andrew & Kris)
		- Look at analytics on docs/pages related - what is getting used

* **Client release timeliness** (Eric Pugh)
	- Discussion on how clients are released
	- Releases need to be on time with more clients, this is causing issues
	- TSC should be finding individuals who can be responsible for this
	- **Action Items** (TSC)
		- Should a Clients/Tools TAG be started?
		- Bring on additional maintainers to move these forward

* **Roadmap/Shared vision** (Eric/Kris)
	- Community is interested in futures of OpenSearch
		- related - Andres has a draft of 2026 Release Schedule [opensearch-project/.github/issues/415](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/issues/415)
	- How do we establish a shared vision for 2026?
	- How do we distill a process for this
	- **Action Items** (Eric & Kris)
		- Build a roadmap and process for input to produce this 
		- Base off past forward-looking post from 2024/2025
			- Document stakeholders (TSC/Maintainers/TAGs/Community)
		- Additional considerations: Roundtable discussions with maintainers at OpenSearchCon(s)

* **Improve Maintainer onboarding** (TSC)
	- We need to review and improve [RESPONSIBILITIES.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/RESPONSIBILITIES.md) procedure
	- Better / formal process for adding
	- Recommend improvements for enabling current maintainers to reach out / bring on new
	- **Action Items** (Eric/Andres/Kris/Prudhvi)
		- Put together a draft
		- See how Prudhvi's metrics can assist





